# Python Interview Questions Challenge

Question 1. What are the main features of Python?

(1) Python is an interpreted language and does not need to be compiled before it is run.

(2) Python is well suited to object orientated programming in that it allows the definition of classes along with composition and inheritance.


(3) Python is a High Level Programming language.

(4) Python is literally a general-purpose language, i.e.,
Python finds its way in various domains such as web application development, automation, Data Science, Machine Learning, and more.

(5) Writing Python code is quick but running it is often slower than compiled languages.

(6) Graphical User Interface (GUI) Support

(7) Large Community Support


Question 2. What is the difference between a list and a dictionary?

List– An ordered sequence of items is called a list. The elements of a list may belong to different data types. Eg. [10,’Amaka’,2.4]

Dictionary–  It is an unordered collection of elements. The elements in dictionaries are stored as key-value pairs.
A dictionary stores values in key and value pairs where each value can be accessed through its key.
The order of items is not important. Eg. {1:’pear’,2:’grapes}


Question 3. In your word, explain the keyword pass
Pass means no-operation Python statement. It simply indicates a space that should be left blank within the compound statement.

Question 4. What is an iterator in Python?

Iterator are the certain objects that are easily traversed and iterated when needed

Question 5. What is unit testing?
Unit testing means testing different components of software separately.

Question 6. Of the available unit test framework in Python, which is your favorite and why.

(1) unittest
(2) pytest

My favorite is pytest because it's easier to work with; the code is simpler.

Question 7. Name the types of arguments in Python
(1) Keyword arguments
(2) Positional argument
(3) Default arguments
(4) Arbitrary positional arguments
(5) Arbitrary keyword arguments

Question 8. Explain what functions are.
A function is a sequence of instructions that performs a specific task, it is a  block of code which is executed only when a call is made to the function.
A function can have input arguments, which are made available to it by the user, the entity calling the function.
Functions also have output parameters, which are the results of the function that the user expects to receive once the
function has completed its task.


Question 9. How do you create a class in Python?

To create a class, use the keyword class:

Question 10. Explain what polymorphism and Inheritance are in Python OOP
Polymorphism means the ability to take multiple forms. It allows us to use a single interface with different underlying forms such as
data types or classes. For instance, if the parent class has a method named ABC then the child class also can have a method with the
same name ABC having its own parameters and variables.

Inheritance allows us to define a class that inherits all the methods and attributes from another class.
Inheritance provides code re-usability, makes it easier to create and maintain an application.
The class from which we are inheriting is called super-class and the class that is inherited is called a derived / child class.
